hey guys welcome to my channel today
we're going to talk about creating a
resume a perfect one-page resume that
can get you into a dream University or
can get your dream job I've done a lot
of them so today I'm gonna share my
experience and my tips to create a
perfect resume for your application if
you're interested please continue
watching this video
[Music]
there's gonna be a very hands-on video
we're gonna go through my resume which
is a one-pager resume created by
standards of Stanford University I
actually went to their MBA section and
they have the whole explanation about
the resume they want to see as I
mentioned in the intro to this video
we need a one-page resume because it's
typical in many countries to create just
one page for every 10 years of work
experience and the majority of you will
only have like 10 or maybe 12 years of
work experience but one pager is enough
what's really important for you to
understand when people look at your
resume they have maybe like 20 seconds
and you need to grab that attention you
need to tell them in those 20 seconds
the most important things about you so
creating a resume is an art I know there
are so many things you want to share
like I have this file of different
prices from school like best singer and
great five best whoever during the gym
best whoever during the concert whatever
I have a lot but they aren't here is to
dig out the most important stuff and
impress okay this is gonna be my resume
back from 2015 I was in Russia and I was
applying for my MBA and actually got
interviewed by MIT I was accepted to
University of Florida except Johns
Hopkins
so this resume actually works now let's
go through the details detail number one
it's a very blank resume it doesn't have
any fancy fonts it doesn't have any
designer solutions just leave it like
that
Arial or colibri as a font number 11 or
number 12 and picture is a cliche so do
not include a picture on your resume
especially in America for example you
cannot judge a person by his or her
appearance so the most important section
of the resume it's called summary why is
it important again cuz I've told you
maybe a person who looks at your resume
has like 20 seconds so you're like come
on here is the most important part
summary your prizes your achievements
why are you so special in my case I've
written about building companies and
again you see a lot of numbers yes my
companies didn't have a lot of revenue
back then but
highlighted this a huge 12 billion
market I was accepted to 500 startups
accelerated program a lot of people
don't know what an accelerator program
is but I'm telling them the acceptance
rate is less than 5% this means it's
really competitive it means I've
definitely done something right if I got
accepted then I had some awards that I
wanted to highlight and I wanted to
highlight the international nature of
those Awards so I wrote the name of the
country that awarded me that award oh my
god so many awarded worth money
ok then we're gonna go to work
experience section which is the most
important section for basically anything
except for a PhD for PhD it's gonna be
really important to mention your
academic achievements for MBA for
masters for job applications of course
everybody wants to look at your current
experience that you already had so
you're gonna start with the most recent
one and again you're putting in the
company you're putting in your position
and if it is a salesperson please do not
waste your time explaining what a
salesperson does cuz everybody knows
that he's making cold calls selling
closing deals bla bla bla that's not
interesting because I know what a
salesperson does your task here is to
show that you are an outstanding
salesperson you need to show how many
deals you've closed and maybe tell that
that's 20% above the average that a
manager does maybe you got promoted in
one year and on average people get
promoted from this to that position in
two years maybe you've got a price being
the best salesperson in quarter to 2016
highlight that that's important maybe
you close deals with big names like
Samsung and Apple write that down please
do not explain what you do like that's
obvious again in my case I was writing
about bringing a new concept forming
advisory board and I made sure I clue
some buzz names like Eric former Airbnb
employees and when I've talked about a
marketing strategy I made sure included
numbers and again when we're talking
about this is a very American thing now
listen carefully if I'm talking about my
channel yes I can say that I have no one
100,000 subscribers but I can also say I
have more than 20 million views which
number is more impressive where is the
second one so make sure you including
bigger numbers then we scroll down yes
I've had another job I had another
company I mentioned that company there
mentioned some of the experiences that
I've had and mentioned some of my
successes and then would go down to
education when we're talking about
education it's not really important to
mention like how you were the best in
class or whatever your GPA is enough but
only if you have work experience if you
don't have work experience then
highlight your successful stories during
the studies for example conferences or
publications or maybe being top 5% of
the class like again it depends on your
background in my case I had a lot of
work experience so I mentioned my
University and school education and just
mentioned my GPA and that was it I
mentioned prices from back in 2005 but I
just thought they were super big because
I won Olympians in English in my home
country so I thought that's really
important so I mentioned those I
mentioned some recent awards I made sure
that I explained who awarded me that
like opportunity award by the US
Department state of education Cultural
Affairs that sounds really really good
so make sure you mentioned that as well
additional information maybe you have
something fun maybe you have something
you need other people to know like I was
included in this publication about 16
women founders making moves in tech I
think that sounds great then I was a
volunteer singer this is my volunteer
work and I mentioned that I'm accredited
as an educational agent I think because
I spent time on that I wanted to mention
that and then the very last like two
lines are your hobbies just for fun
maybe there is a person with the same
hobby on the other end and there is a
chance you'd connect better so I
mentioned ballet mentioned having been
to 26 countries being a top singer
youtuber etc that worked actually when I
apply to University of Florida they go
back to me with accepting my application
and also had a handwritten note from the
Dean who said that Wow I've actually
been to Russia I've seen Russian ballet
and you guys are the best
I'm so proud that we might have a
student like you who does ballet so that
was a nice touch so make sure you
mentioned that again there are so many
ways to create a resume this is my
approach and this is based on Stanford's
standards for their MBA applicants I've
looked to add this resume with a couple
of people who work for big corporations
and they approved it but there are also
other techniques and don't forget about
the cover letter right when you apply
for a job there is also an email that
comes with uh with your resume so I
found some really good resources for you
guys they are on Skillshare comm there
are a lot of different classes that you
can take about creating a resume and I
think it's really important that people
who are providing those classes I
actually have experience of recruiting
etc and I think it's really good to hear
their point of view because I've never
been like a recruiter in a huge
corporation go ahead check out the link
below to get some more tips about your
resume because again this is such an
important thing and this is something
that represents you as a person by the
way Skil share is not just about resumes
if you are willing to enhance other
skills go ahead and check it out cuz
Skillshare is an online learning
community with thousands of classes and
design business technology resumes
Seabees cover letters whatever Premium
Membership gives you unlimited access to
high-quality classes from experts
working there fills so you can improve
your skills unlock new opportunities and
do the work you're loved and by the way
annual subscription is less than ten
dollars a month which means that well
education is so affordable these days
there's so many resources it's just up
to you to go ahead and grab them another
very important thing so you've seen how
much space every section takes in your
resume and this is how much time in your
life you're actually spending on all of
that
so yes work is like 80% of my life
hobbies are like 10% of my life and
there are some other humans that are
like 10 percent of my life so make sure
when you're preparing for your
application make sure you concentrate on
really important things because
sometimes people like omarina I don't
have any volunteer experience and you
talked about the section where you talk
about volunteer experience
do I need to go ahead and like
concentrate on that I'm like no because
number one is general summary your work
experience concentrate on being
successful in your workplace concentrate
on taking your exams if you need them
and when everything is really good
looking really nice then go ahead and do
the volunteer experience because again
this is like the last two lines of your
resume and then maybe go and concentrate
on your hobbies this is a really good
guideline for you on how to do your time
management during your life an
organization time management personal
hygiene that was it guys
these were my thoughts about creating a
good resume this was my example of a
resume who got me into different
universities and that highlights my best
results in this life if you liked this
video please hit like if you haven't
subscribe to this channel there is a
button the same color as my dress and
lips today please hit it to not miss my
next video my question to you is what
are you going to use the resume for is
it going to be for education is it going
to be for work or maybe something else
please comment down below because it's
gonna give me more ideas on how to help
you in my next videos looking forward to
seeing you and the next logs and bye bye